# **Euclideon Vault Client Translation Guide**

## Getting Started with a New Translation

Translation files live in `/assets/lang/` and are named using the ISO standards [ISO 639-1](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_639-1) and [ISO 3166-1 alpha-2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2). The Australian English translation is therefore `en-AU.json`.

It is recommended to start a new translation by copying the `en-AU.json` file as this is the official translation.

The top of the file needs info on the translation:
- `langkey`: This is the ISO 639-1 key for the language (or `null` if not applicable)
- `countrykey`: This is the ISO 3166-1 key for the country (or `null` if not applicable)
- `localname`: Is the name of the translation in the language (so users of that language can see it in the list)
- `englishname`: Is the name of the translation in English so the developers at Euclideon know what it is.
- `translationby`: This is your name so you can be credited for your work.
- `contactemail`: This is your email so you can be credited for your work.

The `languages.json` file contains the list of languages that Euclideon Vault Client will offer to the end user. This is checked after boot (not necessarily immediately at startup) to include new language packs. This also gets cached in the users settings directory.

Some strings support optional parameters that will be generated by the application. These are accessed using `{n}` where n is the index for the parameter starting from 0. The string that concatenates Latitude, Longitude and Altitude, `gisInfoLatLongAlt` has 3 parameters, `{0}` for latitude, `{1}` for longitude and `{2}` for altitude so the localized string is `Lat: {0}, Lon: {1}, Alt {2}`. There are no restrictions on the order of these parameters in the localized string, nor a restriction on the count. `{1}, {0}, {1}` were the parameters are `[Apple, Orange]` would output `Orange, Apple, Orange`.

### Submiting back to Euclideon for inclusion
Email support@euclideon.com to get your language included in the official bundle.

## String List

Strings are camelCase, with the module they are from and then the specific string key. For example, the convert module has an error message that is displayed when an unsupported filename is found, this is `convertErrorUnsupported`

Modules are currently:
- [Login](#login-strings)
- [Camera](#camera-strings)
- [Settings](#settings-strings)

### Login Strings

- `loginTitle`: This is the title in the login box
- `loginButton`: Used on the button on the login screen
- `loginErrorConnection`: "Could not connect to server."
- `loginErrorAuth`: "Username or Password incorrect."
- `loginErrorTimeSync`: "Your clock doesn't match the remote server clock."
- `loginErrorSecurity`: "Could not open a secure channel to the server."
- `loginErrorNegotiate`: "Unable to negotiate with server, please confirm the server address"
- `loginErrorProxy`: "Unable to negotiate with proxy server, please confirm the proxy server address"
- `loginErrorOther`: "Unknown error occurred, please try again later."

### Camera Strings

- `cameraLatLongAlt`: Used to display the latitude, longitude and altitude information where applicable
  1. {0} Latitiude (in degrees)
  2. {1} Longitude (in degrees)
  3. {2} Altitude (in SRID space)
- `cameraPosition`: Is used in the camera info box so the user can change the position of the camera (in the current SRID)
- `cameraRotation`: Is used in the camera info box so the user can change the orientation of the camera
- `cameraMoveSpeed`: Is used on the slider in the camera info box to let the user change the speed of the camera.
- `cameraOutOfBounds`: Is displayed in the camera info box when the camera is outside of the requested geozone. This is intended to alert the user that the space is distorted
- `cameraOSCMove`: This text is displayed on the forward, back and strage button of the on screen controls. (note that this setting is deprecated to be removed)
- `cameraOSCUpDown`: This is the text in the up/down section of the on screen controls. (note that this setting is deprecated to be removed)
